Project Title : Seoul Bike Sharing Demand Prediction

Problem Description
Currently Rental bikes are introduced in many urban cities for the enhancement of mobility comfort. It is important to make the rental bike available and accessible to the public at the right time as it lessens the waiting time. Eventually, providing the city with a stable supply of rental bikes becomes a major concern. The crucial part is the prediction of bike count required at each hour for the stable supply of rental bikes.

Data Description
The dataset contains weather information (Temperature, Humidity, Windspeed, Visibility, Dewpoint, Solar radiation, Snowfall, Rainfall), the number of bikes rented per hour and date information.
Attribute Information:
Date : year-month-day
Rented Bike count - Count of bikes rented at each hour
Hour - Hour of he day
Temperature-Temperature in Celsius
Humidity - %
Windspeed - m/s
Visibility - 10m
Dew point temperature - Celsius
Solar radiation - MJ/m2
Rainfall - mm
Snowfall - cm
Seasons - Winter, Spring, Summer, Autumn
Holiday - Holiday/No holiday
Functional Day - NoFunc(Non Functional Hours), Fun(Functional hours)


First issue was date format:
created four new column with name - week_day,day,month,year

did some visualization on the basis of newly created column, seasons, holiday, functional day etc

then found out a right skewed diagram for rented bike count vs count
deal with it using sqrt and log

also while using a heatmap i found out collineaty issue
temperature and dew point temperature has value of 0.9 quite close to 1 


also to  calculate Multi collinearity i have calculated VIF  
Multicollinearity occurs when two or more independent variables in a regression model are highly correlated, which can cause issues in estimating the coefficients of the model accurately. A high VIF indicates that an independent variable is highly correlated with one or more other independent variables,

VIF = 1: There is no correlation between the independent variable and other variables.
1 < VIF < 5: Moderate correlation. Generally considered acceptable, but caution is advised.
VIF ≥ 5: Indicates high correlation with other variables, which may be problematic.
VIF ≥ 10: Suggests serious multicollinearity, and it is usually recommended to consider removing or combining variables.

so i have to drop dew point temperature 

Also perform encoding that to convert categorical data to numerical like holiday, no holiday to 0,1 and functioning and non functioning to 0,1

also use a standard scaling method 

then done the training and testing using various model where XGB and Random forest gave R2 score of 0.93 and 0.91

	
 